Section my:Optima Secure - Prospectus my: Optima Secure is a unique indemnity health insurance product which covers expenses incurred on hospitalization due to Illness or Accident. Some of the innovative benefits offered are: · Secure Benefit offers additional coverage amount equivalent to 100%/200% of the Base Sum Insured. · Plus Benefit offers additional coverage equivalent to 100% of the Base Sum Insured in 2 years irrespective of a claim. · Automatic Restore Benefits restores 100% of Base Sum Insured automatically on partial or complete utilization of Sum Insured (i.e. Base Sum Insured, Secure Benefit and Plus Benefit / Cumulative Bonus). · Protect Benefit pays towards the Non-Medical expenses like gloves, food charges and other consumables during hospitalization. · Global cover provides coverage for hospitalization expenses incurred outside India. Section 1. Eligibility. This Policy covers Insured Persons in the age group 91 days to 65 years. · The minimum entry age for an adult is 18 years and maximum entry age is 65 years. · The minimum entry age for a dependent child (i.e. natural or legally adopted) is 91 days and maximum entry age is 25 years. · Dependent Child between 91 days and 5 years can be insured provided either of the parent is getting insured under this Policy. · Dependent Child between 5 to 25 years can be insured on Individual basis wherein proposer may not be an insured. · When the child attains the age of 25 years, he or she shall be ineligible for coverage in the subsequent renewals and will be migrated to a new Policy, with continuity benefits. · There is no maximum cover ceasing age on renewals. · The family includes following relationships: spouse, dependent children, parents and parents-in-law. 
Section 1.1. In a family floater Policy, a maximum of 4 adults and a maximum of  6  dependent children can be included in a single Policy. The 4 adults can be a combination of self, spouse, parents and parents- in-law. · In an individual Policy, a maximum of 6 adults and a maximum of 6 dependent children can be included in a single Policy. List of relationships which can be included is mentioned, Spouse, Son, Daughter, Father, Mother, Father-in-law, Mother-in-law, Daughter-in-law, Son-in-law, Grandfather, Grandmother, Grandson, Granddaughter, Brother, Sister, Sister-in-law, Brother-in-law, Nephew, Niece. Section 2. Plans & Sum Insured (Rs.) my: Optima Secure offers five plans with following Sum Insured options depending on the Plan opted. ₹5,00,000; ₹10,00,000; ₹15,00,000; ₹20,00,000; ₹25,00,000; ₹50,00,000; ₹1,00,00,000; ₹2,00,00,000. All Insured Persons in a Policy will have the same Sum Insured. · The Policy will be issued for a period of 1, 2 or 3 year(s), the Sum Insured and benefits will be applicable per Policy Year basis. 
Section 2.1. Illustration: Maximum Amount Payable in a Hospitalization Claim (Year 1). Plans compared: Optima Suraksha, Optima Secure, Optima Super Secure, Optima Secure Global, Optima Secure Global Plus. Base Sum Insured: ₹10 lakh for Suraksha, Secure, Super Secure; ₹1 crore for Global and Global Plus. Secure Benefit: NIL for Suraksha, ₹10 lakh for Secure, ₹20 lakh for Super Secure, ₹1 crore for Global and Global Plus. Cumulative Bonus / Plus Benefit: NIL for all. Automatic Restore Benefit: ₹10 lakh for Suraksha, Secure, Super Secure; ₹1 crore for Global and Global Plus. Maximum permissible amount for a single hospitalization claim: ₹10 lakh for Suraksha, ₹20 lakh for Secure, ₹30 lakh for Super Secure, ₹2 crore for Global and Global Plus. Maximum permissible amount for all hospitalization claims in a policy year: ₹20 lakh for Suraksha, ₹30 lakh for Secure, ₹40 lakh for Super Secure, ₹3 crore for Global and Global Plus (marked with ^). Section 2.2 Illustration: Maximum Amount Payable in a Hospitalization Claim (Year 2). Plans compared: Optima Suraksha, Optima Secure, Optima Super Secure, Optima Secure Global, Optima Secure Global Plus. Base Sum Insured: ₹10 lakh for Suraksha, Secure, Super Secure; ₹1 crore for Global and Global Plus. Secure Benefit: NIL for Suraksha, ₹10 lakh for Secure, ₹20 lakh for Super Secure, ₹1 crore for Global and Global Plus. Cumulative Bonus / Plus Benefit: ₹1 lakh for Suraksha, ₹5 lakh for Secure, ₹5 lakh for Super Secure, ₹50 lakh for Global and Global Plus. Automatic Restore Benefit: ₹10 lakh for Suraksha, Secure, Super Secure; ₹1 crore for Global and Global Plus. Maximum permissible amount for a single hospitalization claim: ₹11 lakh for Suraksha, ₹25 lakh for Secure, ₹35 lakh for Super Secure, ₹2.5 crore for Global and Global Plus. Maximum permissible amount for all hospitalization claims in a policy year: ₹21 lakh for Suraksha, ₹35 lakh for Secure, ₹45 lakh for Super Secure, ₹3.5 crore for Global and Global Plus (marked with ^). Section 2.3 Illustration: Maximum Amount Payable in a Hospitalization Claim (Year 3). Plans compared: Optima Suraksha, Optima Secure, Optima Super Secure, Optima Secure Global, Optima Secure Global Plus. Base Sum Insured: ₹10 lakh for Suraksha, Secure, Super Secure; ₹1 crore for Global and Global Plus. Secure Benefit: NIL for Suraksha, ₹10 lakh for Secure, ₹20 lakh for Super Secure, ₹1 crore for Global and Global Plus. Cumulative Bonus / Plus Benefit: ₹2 lakh for Suraksha, ₹10 lakh for Secure, ₹10 lakh for Super Secure, ₹1 crore for Global and Global Plus. Automatic Restore Benefit: ₹10 lakh for Suraksha, Secure, Super Secure; ₹1 crore for Global and Global Plus. Maximum permissible amount for a single hospitalization claim: ₹12 lakh for Suraksha, ₹30 lakh for Secure, ₹40 lakh for Super Secure, ₹3 crore for Global and Global Plus. Maximum permissible amount for all hospitalization claims in a policy year: ₹22 lakh for Suraksha, ₹40 lakh for Secure, ₹50 lakh for Super Secure, ₹4 crore for Global and Global Plus (marked with). Assuming No Claim in year 1 and 2 ^Note: Maximum hospitalisation claim amount in Optima Secure Global & Optima Secure Global Plus is calculated basis claims made in India. Note: Secure and Restore benefit are available only for claims within India. Section 3. Base Coverage. The Covers listed below are in-built Policy benefits and shall be available to all Insured Persons in accordance with the procedures set out in this Policy and up to the Sub-limits mentioned in the Policy Schedule. Cumulative Bonus shall be available only if the Cover is specified to be applicable in the Policy Schedule. Claims made in respect of any of these Covers will affect the eligibility for the additional Covers set out in Section 4 and Section 5 below. Section 3.1.  Hospitalization Expenses The Company shall indemnify Medical Expenses necessarily incurred by the Insured Person for Hospitalization of the Insured Person during the Policy Year due to Illness or Injury, up to the Sum Insured and Cumulative Bonus specified in the Policy Schedule for: a. Room Rent, boarding, nursing expenses as provided by the Hospital / Nursing Home. b. Intensive Care Unit (ICU) / Intensive Cardiac Care Unit (ICCU) expenses. HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited my:Optima Secure - Prospectus c. Surgeon,  anaesthetist,  Medical  Practitioner,  consultants, specialist Fees during Hospitalization forming part of Hospital bill. d. Investigative  treatments and diagnostic procedures directly related to Hospitalization. e. Medicines and drugs prescribed in writing by Medical Practitioner. f. Intravenous  fluids,  blood  transfusion,  surgical  appliances, allowable consumables and/or enteral feedings. Operation theatre charges. g. The cost of prosthetics and other devices or equipment, if implanted internally during Surgery. Section 3.1.1.  Other Expenses i. Expenses incurred on road Ambulance if the Insured Person is required to be transferred to the nearest Hospital for Emergency Care or from one Hospital to another Hospital or from Hospital to Home (within same city) following Hospitalization. ii. In patient Care Dental Treatment, necessitated due to disease or Injury iii. Plastic surgery, necessitated due to Injury iv. All Day Care Treatments. Note: i. Expenses of Hospitalization for a minimum period of 24 consecutive hours only shall be admissible. However, the time limit shall not apply in respect of Day Care Treatment. ii. The Hospitalization must be for Medically Necessary Treatment, and prescribed in writing by Medical Practitioner. Section 3.2.  Home Health Care The Company shall indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred by the Insured Person on availing treatment at Home during the Policy Year, if prescribed in writing by the treating Medical Practitioner, provided that: a. The treatment in normal course would require In-patient Care at a Hospital, and be admissible under Section 3.1 (Hospitalization Expenses). b. The treatment  is  pre-authorized  by  the  Company  as  per procedure given under Claims Procedure - Section 6. c. Records of the treatment administered, duly signed by the treating Medical Practitioner, are maintained for each day of the Home treatment. This Cover is not available on reimbursement basis. Section 3.3. Domiciliary Hospitalization The Company shall indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred during the Policy Year on Domiciliary Hospitalization of the Insured Person prescribed in writing by treating Medical Practitioner, provided that: a. the condition of the Insured Person is such that he/she could not be removed/admitted to a Hospital. or b. the Medically Necessary Treatment is taken at Home on account of non-availability of room in a Hospital. Section 3.4. AYUSH Treatment The Company shall indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred by the Insured Person for Inpatient Care under Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems of medicines during each Policy Year up to the Sub-limit specified against this Cover in the Policy Schedule, in any AYUSH Hospital. Section 3.5. Pre-Hospitalization Expenses The Company shall indemnify the Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred by the Insured Person, related to an admissible Hospitalization under Section 3.1 (Hospitalization Expenses), for up to 60 days immediately prior to the date of admissible Hospitalization covered under the Policy. Section 3.6. Post-Hospitalization Expenses The Company shall indemnify the Post-Hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred by the Insured Person, related to an admissible Hospitalization under Section 3.1 (Hospitalization Expenses), for up to 180 days from the date of discharge from the Hospital, following an admissible Hospitalization claim under the Policy. Section 3.7.  Organ Donor Expenses The Company shall indemnify the Medical Expenses covered under Section 3.1(Hospitalization  Expenses) which are incurred by the Insured Person during the Policy Year towards the organ donor's Hospitalization for harvesting of the donated organ where an Insured Person is the recipient, subject to the following conditions: a. The  organ  donor  is  any  person  whose  organ  has  been made available in accordance and in compliance with The Transplantation  of  Human  Organ  (amendment)  Act,  2011, Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Rules, 2014 and other applicable laws and/or regulations. b. Recipient Insured Person's claim under Section 3.1 (Hospitalization Expenses) is admissible under the Policy. c. Expenses listed below are excluded from this Cover: i. The organ donor's Pre-Hospitalization Expenses and Post Hospitalization Expenses. ii. Expenses related to organ transportation or preservation. iii. Any other Medical Expenses or Hospitalization consequent to the organ harvesting. Section 3.8.  Cumulative Bonus (CB) [Applicable only to Optima Suraksha plan] Cumulative Bonus (CB) will be applied/increased by 10% of the Base Sum Insured in respect of each claim free Policy Year (where no claims are reported), provided the Policy is renewed with the Company without a break, subject to maximum cap of 100% of the Base Sum Insured under the current Policy Year. If a claim is made in any particular Policy Year, the CB accrued shall be reduced at the same rate at which it has accrued. Notes: Section 3.9. In case where the Policy is on individual basis as specified in the Policy Schedule, the CB shall be added and available individually to the Insured Person if no claim has been reported. CB shall reduce only in case of claim from the same Insured Person. b. In case where the Policy is on floater basis, the CB shall be added and available to the family on floater basis, provided no claim has been reported from any Family Member. CB shall reduce in case of claim from any of the Insured Persons. c. CB shall be available only if the Policy is renewed/ premium paid within the Grace Period. d. If  the  Insured  Persons  in  the  expiring  policy  are  covered  on  an individual basis as specified in the Policy Schedule and there is an accumulated CB for such Insured Persons under the expiring policy, and such expiring policy has been Renewed on a floater policy basis as specified in the Policy Schedule then the CB to be carried forward for  credit  in  such  Renewed Policy shall be the lowest one that is applicable among all the Insured Persons. e. In case of floater policies where the Insured Persons Renew their expiring policy by splitting the Sum Insured in to two or more floater policies/individual policies or in cases where the Policy is split due to the child attaining the Age of 25 years, the CB of the expiring policy shall be apportioned to such Renewed Policies in the proportion of the Sum Insured of each Renewed Policy. Section 3.10. If  the  Sum Insured has been reduced at the time of Renewal, the applicable CB shall be reduced in the same proportion to the Sum Insured in current Policy. g. If the Sum Insured under the Policy has been increased at the time of Renewal, the CB shall be calculated on the Sum Insured of the last completed Policy Year. h. If a claim is made in the expiring Policy Year, and is notified to the Company after the acceptance of Renewal premium any awarded CB shall be withdrawn. i. If the Policy Period is of two/three years, any CB that has accrued for the first/second Policy Year shall be credited post completion of each Policy Year. j. New Insured Person added to the Policy during subsequent Renewals will be eligible for CB as per their Renewal terms. k. CB shall be available only if the Cover is specified to be applicable in the Policy Schedule. 
Section 4. Optional Covers. The Covers listed below are optional covers. An optional cover is applicable to an Insured Person only if it is specified in the Policy Schedule to be in force for that Insured Person, and such optional cover will be available in accordance with the procedures set out in this Policy and up to the Sub-limits mentioned in the Policy Schedule. The optional covers shall apply to all Insured Person(s) once selected, without any individual selection. Note: Please refer to 'Annexure A' for Optional Covers which are in-built in Your plan. Section 4.1.  Emergency Air Ambulance The Company shall indemnify expenses incurred by the Insured Person during the Policy Year towards Ambulance transportation in an airplane or helicopter for Emergency Care which requires immediate and rapid Ambulance transportation that ground transportation cannot provide from the site of first occurrence of the Illness or Accident to the nearest Hospital. The claim is subject to a maximum of Sum Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule against this Cover, and subject to the following conditions: a. The air Ambulance transportation is advised in writing by a Medical Practitioner. b. Medically Necessary Treatment is not available at the location where the Insured Person is situated at the time of emergency. c. The air Ambulance provider is a registered entity in India (except Section 4.9 (Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only)) and Section 4.10 (Global Health Cover (Emergency and Planned Treatments Only)) d. The Insured Person is in India and the treatment is taken in India only. (except Section 4.9 (Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only))  and  Section  4.10  (Global  Health  Cover (Emergency and Planned Treatments Only)). e. No return transportation to the Insured Person's Home or elsewhere by the air Ambulance will be covered under this Cover. f. A claim for the same Hospitalization is admissible under Section 3.1  (Hospitalization  Expenses) OR Section 4.9 (Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only)) OR Section 4.10 (Global Health Cover (Emergency and Planned Treatments Only)). g. The amount specified in the Policy schedule against this benefit denotes the Company's maximum liability in respect to the benefit and shall not reduce the Sum Insured of the policy. Section 4.2.  Daily Cash for Shared Room The  Company shall  pay  a  daily  cash  amount  as  specified  in Policy  Schedule  for  each  continuous  and  completed  24  hours of  Hospitalization  during  the  Policy  Year  if  the  Insured  Person  is Hospitalised in shared accommodation in a Network Provider Hospital and such Hospitalization exceeds 48 consecutive hours. Specific Exclusions: a. The Cover is not available for the time spent by the Insured Person in an Intensive Care Unit (ICU). b. The claim for the same Hospitalization is not admissible under Section 3.1 (Hospitalization Expenses). c. The amount specified in the Policy schedule against this benefit denotes the Company's maximum liability in respect to the benefit and shall not reduce the Sum Insured of the policy. Section 4.3.  Protect Benefit The Company shall indemnify the Insured Person for the Non-Medical Expenses listed under Annexure B to this Policy incurred in relation to a claim admissible under Section 3 (Base Coverage) during the Policy Year. Exclusion (k) of Section 10.2 - Specific Exclusions shall not apply to this Cover. Section 4.4.  Plus Benefit On Renewal of this Policy with the Company without a break, a sum equal to 50% of the Base Sum Insured under the expiring Policy will be added to the Sum Insured available under the Renewed Policy subject to the following conditions: a. The applicable Plus Benefit under this Cover can only be accumulated up to 100% of Base Sum Insured, and will be applicable only to the Insured Person covered under the expiring Policy and who continues to remain insured on Renewal. b. The applicable Plus Benefit shall be applied annually only on  completion  of  each  Policy  Year,  and  once  added,  the accumulated amount will be carried forward to the subsequent Policy Year, subject to there being no Break in Policy c. This Cover will be applied irrespective of number of claims made under the expiring Policy. d. This applicable Plus Benefit under this Cover can be utilized only for claims admissible under Section 3 (Base Coverage) and Section 4.3 (Protect Benefit) of the Policy. Section 4.4.1 Notes : i. In case where the Policy is issued on an individual basis, the Plus Benefit shall  be  added  and  available  individually  to  the  Insured Person. In case where the Policy is on floater basis, the Plus Benefit shall be added and available to all Family Members on a floater basis. ii. Plus Benefit shall be available only if the Policy is renewed and due premium is received within the Grace Period. iii. If  the  Insured  Persons  in  the  expiring  policy  are  covered  on  an individual basis as specified in the Policy Schedule and there is an accumulated Plus Benefit for such Insured Persons under the expiring policy, and such expiring policy has been Renewed on a floater policy basis as specified in the Policy Schedule then the Plus Benefit to be carried forward for credit in such Renewed Policy shall be the lowest one that is applicable among all the Insured Persons. iv. In case of floater policies where Insured Persons Renew their expiring policy by splitting the Sum Insured in to two or more floater policies/ individual policies or in cases where the Policy is split due to the child attaining the Age of 25 years, the Plus Benefit of the expiring policy shall be apportioned to such Renewed Policies in the proportion of the Sum Insured of each Renewed Policy v. If  the  Sum Insured has been reduced at the time of Renewal, the applicable Plus Benefit shall be reduced in the same proportion to the Sum Insured in current Policy. vi. If the Sum Insured under the Policy has been increased at the time of Renewal, the Plus Benefit shall be calculated on the Sum Insured of the last completed Policy Year. vii. If the Policy Period is of two or three years, the Plus Benefit shall be credited post completion of each Policy Year, and will be available for any claims made in the subsequent Policy Year. viii. New Insured Person added to the Policy during subsequent Renewals will be eligible for the Plus Benefit as per their Renewal terms. Section 4.5.  Secure Benefit An additional  amount  as  specified  in  the  Policy  Schedule  will be available to the Insured Person as Sum Insured for all claims admissible under Section 3 (Base Coverage) and Section 4.3 (Protect Benefit) during the Policy Year, subject to the following conditions: a. This Secure Benefit shall be applied only once during each Policy Year and any unutilized amount, in whole or in part will not be carried forward to the subsequent Policy Year. b. The Secure Benefit can be utilized for any number of claims admissible under the Policy during the Policy Year. c. The Secure Benefit will be applicable only after exhaustion of Base Sum Insured. d. In case of family floater policy, the Secure Benefit will be available on floater basis for all Insured Persons covered under the Policy and will operate in accordance with the above conditions. Section 4.6.  Automatic Restore Benefit In the event of complete or partial utilization of the Base Sum Insured due to any claim admitted during the Policy Year irrespective of the utilization  of  the  Cumulative  Bonus, Plus Benefit, and Secure Benefit, the Company shall restore the Sum Insured up to the Base Sum Insured (as applicable under the current Policy Year) for any subsequent claims admissible under Section 3 (Base Coverage) and Section 4.3 (Protect Benefit) (if in force), subject to the following conditions: a. This Automatic Restore Benefit shall be applied only once during each Policy Year and any unutilized amount, in whole or in part, will not be carried forward to the subsequent Policy Year. b. The Base Sum Insured restoration under the Automatic Restore Benefit  would  be  triggered  only  upon  complete  or  partial utilization  of  the  Base  Sum  Insured  by  the  way  of  first  claim admitted under the Policy, and be available for subsequent claims thereafter in the Policy Year, for all Insured Persons. c. In case of a family floater policy, the Automatic Restore Benefit will be available on floater basis for all Insured Persons covered under the Policy and will operate in accordance with the above conditions. Section 4.7.  Aggregate Deductible The Insured Person shall bear an amount equal to the Aggregate Deductible specified on Policy Schedule for all admissible claims made by the Insured Person and assessed by the Company in a Policy Year. The liability of the Company to pay the admissible claim under that Policy Year will commence only once the specified Aggregate Deductible has been exhausted. This Cover shall be subject to the following conditions: a. This Cover is applicable on annual aggregate basis and can be opted only at inception of the Policy or at subsequent Renewals. Aggregate Deductible can be increased at the time of Renewal. b. In  case  of  Individual  Policy,  the  entire  amount  of  Aggregate Deductible must first be exhausted on per Insured Person basis, once in a Policy Year, before the Company pays for claims of that Insured Person in that Policy Year. c. In case of family floater Policy, the entire amount of Aggregate Deductible must first be exhausted by any one or more of the Insured Persons once in a Policy Year before the Company pays for claims of any Family Member covered under the Policy in that Policy Year. d. The Aggregate Deductible is not applicable to Sections 4.8 (E-Opinion for Critical Illness), Section 5 (Preventive Health Check Up), Sections 4.9 (Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only)),  Section  4.10  (Global  Health  Cover  (Emergency  and Planned Treatments Only)) and Section 4.11 (Overseas Travel Secure).  Hence, coverage under Section 4.8 (E-opinion for Critical Illness), Section 5 (Preventive Health Check Up), Section 4.9 (Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only)), Section 4.10 (Global Health Cover (Emergency and Planned Treatments Only)) and Section 4.11 (Overseas Travel Secure) can be availed irrespective of whether the chosen Aggregate Deductible limit is breached or not, during the Policy Year. Section 4.7.1.  Waiver of Aggregate Deductible The Insured Person will have the option to either reduce or waive the applicable deductible only once in the lifetime of the Policy and at Renewal, subject to underwriting and only if all the below mentioned conditions are fulfilled: a. Age of eldest Insured Person should be less than 50 years at the time of purchasing this Policy (with aggregate deductible) b. Only after completion of 5 continuous Policy Years with Us in this Policy and the age of eldest Insured Person covered in the Policy should be less than 61 years at the time of availing this option. c. Continuity benefits of waiting period accrued as per expiring Policy Year (with aggregate deductible) shall be offered even after availing this option. d. This option shall apply to all Insured Person(s) once selected, without any individual selection. e. Post availing 'Waiver of Aggregate Deductible' option, premium will be charged as per the modification made. Section 4.8.  E-Opinion for Critical Illness The Company shall indemnify the expenses incurred by the Insured Person towards E-Opinion for Critical Illness availed from a Medical Practitioner in respect of any Major Medical Illness (of the nature listed below) through the Network Provider specified in the Policy Schedule, subject to the following conditions: a. Benefit under this cover shall be subject to the eligible geography of the Network Provider. The Insured Person may contact the Company or refer to its website for details on eligible Network Provider(s). b. The Benefit under this Cover can be availed by an Insured Person only once in a Policy Year, and shall be available for each Insured Person in case the Policy is issued on a floater basis. c. The Insured Person is free to choose whether or not to obtain the E-Opinion for Critical Illness, and if obtained, it is the Insured Person's sole and absolute discretion to follow the suggestion for any advice related to his/her health. It is understood and agreed that any information and documentation provided to the Company for the purpose of seeking the E-Opinion for Critical Illness shall be shared with the Network Providers. d. Availing  this  benefit  shall  not  have  any  impact  on  the  Sum Insured. Disclaimer E-Opinion for Critical Illness Services are being offered by  Network Providers through its portal/mail/App or any other electronic form to the Policyholders/Insured Person. In no event shall the Company be liable for any direct, indirect, punitive, incidental, special, or consequential damages or any other damages whatsoever caused to the Policyholders/Insured Person while receiving the services from Network Providers or arising out of or in relation to any opinion, advice, prescription, actual or alleged errors, omissions and representations made by the Network Provider or treating Medical Practitioner. Section 4.8.1 Major Medical Illnesses (51 conditions): Cancer of specified severity, Open Chest CABG, Kidney failure requiring regular dialysis, Myocardial Infarction (first heart attack of specified severity), Open Heart Replacement or Repair of Heart Valves, Major Organ or Bone Marrow Transplantation, Multiple Sclerosis with persisting symptoms, Permanent Paralysis of Limbs, Stroke resulting in permanent symptoms, Benign Brain Tumour, Coma of specified severity, Parkinson’s Disease, Alzheimer’s Disease, Surgery of Aorta, End Stage Liver Failure, Deafness, Loss of Speech, Third Degree Burns, Medullary Cystic Disease, Motor Neurone Disease with permanent symptoms, Muscular Dystrophy, Infective Endocarditis, Primary (Idiopathic) Pulmonary Hypertension, Dissecting Aortic Aneurysm, Systemic Lupus Erythematous with Lupus Nephritis, Apallic Syndrome, Aplastic Anaemia, Bacterial Meningitis, Cardiomyopathy, Other serious coronary artery disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD), Encephalitis, End Stage Lung Failure, Fulminant Hepatitis, Eisenmenger’s Syndrome, Major Head Trauma, Chronic Adrenal Insufficiency (Addison’s Disease), Progressive Scleroderma, Progressive Supranuclear Palsy, Blindness, Chronic Relapsing Pancreatitis, Elephantiasis, Brain Surgery, HIV due to blood transfusion and occupationally acquired HIV, Terminal Illness, Myelofibrosis, Pheochromocytoma, Crohn’s Disease, Severe Rheumatoid Arthritis, Severe Ulcerative Colitis, Angioplasty. Section 4.9.  Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only) On availing  this  cover,  the  below  mentioned  benefits  shall  be extended for Emergency Medical Expenses which are diagnosed and incurred outside India: Medical Expenses Covered if Incurred Outside India: Hospitalization Expenses (B 3.1), AYUSH Treatment (B 3.4), Organ Donor Expenses (B 3.7), Emergency Air Ambulance (B 4.1), Protect Benefit (B 4.3), Plus Benefit (B 4.4), E Opinion for Critical Illness (B 4.8). Section 4.9.1 A. Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only) is applicable subject to following terms and conditions i. Our maximum liability in a Policy Year for claims under this cover shall not exceed the Base Sum Insured and Plus Benefit (if available). ii. Section 4.7 (Aggregate Deductible) will not be applicable for any claim under this cover. However, a Per Claim Deductible of Rs. 10,000 will apply separately for each and every claim (except Section 4.8 'E Opinion for Critical Illness') under this cover. iii. Claims shall normally be payable on Reimbursement basis only. Cashless facility may be arranged on case to case basis. iv. The treatment should be taken in a registered Hospital, as per law, rules and/ or regulations applicable to the country, where the treatment is taken. v. The payment of any Claim under this Benefit will be based on the rate of exchange as on the date of payment to the Hospital published by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and shall be used for conversion of Foreign Currency into Indian Rupees for payment of Claims. If on the Insured Person's Date of Discharge, if RBI rates are not published, the exchange rate next published by RBI shall be considered for conversion. vi. We would not be liable to pay any claim wherein the medical treatment taken outside India has not commenced within the first 45 days of a trip. Note: Each trip  shall  be  deemed  to  start  within  the  Policy Period and from the date Insured Person finally boards the flight (scheduled aircraft operated under a valid license for the transportation of fare paying passengers under a valid ticket) to leave from India. vii. There is no separate Sum Insured for this optional cover and any claim triggered under this benefit shall reduce the Sum Insured of the opted plan. Section 4.9.2. Specific Exclusions applicable to Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only) i. Any Planned treatments ii. In case we have paid a Hospitalization claim under this benefit, Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses and/or Post-hospitalization 
Medical Expenses related to the claim whether incurred overseas or within India are not payable under this Policy. iii. Treatment or part of treatment for any condition which is not Life threatening in nature and can be safely postponed till the Insured Person returns to India. iv. Medical treatment taken outside India if that is the sole reason or one of the reasons for the journey. v. Any treatment of orthopedic diseases or conditions except for fractures, dislocations and / or Injuries suffered during the Policy Period. vi. Oncological (Cancer) diseases vii. The Company may not be liable to make any payment under this Policy, wherein the Government of India has laid down territorial restriction. Section 4.10.  Global Health Cover (Emergency & Planned Treatments) On availing  this  cover,  the  below  mentioned  benefits  shall  be extended for both planned and Emergency Medical Expenses incurred outside India: Covered Medical Expenses and Benefits: Hospitalization Expenses (B 3.1), AYUSH Treatment (B 3.4), Pre-Hospitalization Cover (B 3.5), Post-Hospitalization Cover (B 3.6), Organ Donor Expenses (B 3.7), Emergency Air Ambulance (B 4.1), Protect Benefit (B 4.3), Plus Benefit (B 4.4), E Opinion for Critical Illness (B 4.8). Section 4.10.1 Global Health Cover (Emergency & Planned Treatments) is applicable subject to following terms and conditions i. Our maximum liability in a Policy Year for claims under this cover shall not exceed the Base Sum Insured and Plus Benefit (if available). ii. Section 4.7 (Aggregate Deductible) will not be applicable for any claim under this cover. However, a Per Claim Deductible of Rs. 10,000 will apply separately for each and every claim (except Section 4.8 'E Opinion for Critical Illness') under this cover. iii. Claims shall normally be payable on Reimbursement basis only. Cashless facility may be arranged on case to case basis. iv. The treatment should be taken in a registered Hospital, as per law, rules and/ or regulations applicable to the country, where the treatment is taken. v. The payment of any Claim under this Benefit will be based on the rate of exchange as on the date of payment to the Hospital published by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and shall be used for conversion of Foreign Currency into Indian Rupees for payment of Claims. If on the Insured Person's Date of Discharge, if RBI rates are not published, the exchange rate next published by RBI shall be considered for conversion. vi. The Company may not be liable to make any payment under this Policy, wherein the Government of India has laid down territorial restriction. vii. There is no separate Sum Insured for this optional cover and any claim triggered under this benefit shall reduce the Sum Insured of the opted plan. viii. Only  those  Pre-hospitalization  Medical  Expenses  and/or Post-hospitalization  Medical  Expenses  shall  be  admissible under this benefit that have been incurred and paid overseas. Such expenses should be related to an admissible overseas Hospitalization claim only (as per details in invoice/supporting documents). Section 4.11. Overseas Travel Secure i) This optional cover can only be opted along with Optima Secure Global Plan or Optima Secure Global Plus Plan on payment of additional premium. ii) Claim under this benefit shall be payable upto Sum Insured and is admissible only if both the below conditions are fulfilled: a. The overseas treating Medical Practitioner has advised a minimum hospitalization of 5 consecutive days and has also advised the requirement of an accompanying person during treatment. b. We have accepted a claim under · Section  4.9  Global  Health  Cover  (Emergency Treatments Only) OR · Section  4.10  Global  Health  Cover  (Emergency  & Planned Treatments) iii) There is no separate Sum Insured for this optional cover and any claim triggered under this benefit shall reduce the Sum Insured of the opted plan. iv) We will indemnify the following expenses incurred overseas: A Travel Expenses a. We will  indemnify  actual  expenses  incurred  on  air  tickets (most basic economy class airfare in a common carrier) for the Hospitalized Insured Person and any one accompanying person to attend to the Insured Person's medical treatment overseas. Section 4.11.1 i) For Emergency hospitalization cases, we shall indemnify for the following travel expenses · For  the  accompanying person, two way expense incurred on air tickets from his City of Residence OR India to the airport nearest to the site of hospitalization shall be provided. · For the Hospitalized Insured Person, we shall only indemnify air expenses incurred to transport him from the airport nearest to the site of Hospitalization to India. ii) For planned hospitalization cases, we shall indemnify for the following travel expenses · For  the  accompanying person, two way expense incurred on air tickets from his City of Residence OR India to the airport nearest to the site of hospitalization shall be provided. · For the Hospitalized Insured Person, we shall indemnify two way expense incurred on air tickets from India to the airport nearest to the site of hospitalization shall be provided. iii) In case the accompanying person was already present in that city at the time of such hospitalization, we shall only indemnify air expenses incurred to transport him from the airport nearest to the site of Hospitalization to his City of Residence OR India. b. Any kind of other transportation expenses except the expense on airfare is not payable under this optional cover Note - For Insured Person, City of Residence shall be considered as declared in the Proposal Form and mentioned in the Policy Schedule. Whereas, for accompanying person, City of Residence shall be considered as mentioned in the legal document issued by the Government of that particular country. B. Accommodation Expenses a. We will also indemnify the cost of accomodation, at a place near to the site of Hospitalization, for the accompanying person, to attend to the Insured Person's medical treatment overseas. b. Cost of accomodation overseas shall be indemnified upto Rs. 15,000 per day, only for the days wherein the Insured person was hospitalized overseas; maximum upto 30 days in a Policy Year. c. Any other kind of supplementary expenses such as meals, laundry, transport are not payable under this cover. Section 5. Preventive Health Check-up. On each continuous Renewal of the Policy, the Company will indemnify the cost of a Preventive Health Check-up for the Insured Person who was insured during the previous Policy Year, up to the amounts specified in this Cover below. i. This Cover does NOT carry forward if it is not claimed and shall not be provided if the Policy is not Renewed further. ii. The amount specified in the Policy schedule against this benefit denotes the Company's maximum liability in respect to the benefit and shall not reduce the Sum Insured of the policy. iii. For Individual Policies, the below mentioned limits are applicable for each Insured Person per Policy Year. For Family Floater Policies, the below mentioned limits are applicable cumulatively for all Insured Persons per Policy Year. Section 6. Add on - Cover. my:Optima Secure offers following Add on Covers: · My: health Critical Illness Add On with Sum Insured options of Rs. 100,000 to Rs. 500,00,000 in multiples of Rs. 100,000 · My: health Hospital Cash Benefit Add On with Sum Insured options of Rs. 500/ Rs. 1000/ Rs. 1500 / Rs. 2000/ Rs. 2500 / Rs. 3000 / Rs. 5000/ Rs. 7500/ Rs. 10,000 · lndividual Personal Accident Rider with Sum Insured 5 (five) times the Sum Insured of Base Plan up to a maximum of Rs 1 Crore · Unlimited Restore (Add on): Provides unlimited restoration in a Policy Year. (For in depth details on terms and conditions applicable to add-ons, Kindly refer to the Prospectus & Policy wording documents of the respective add-on available under downloads section on our website). Section 7. Pre Policy Check up. Pre-Policy Check-up at our network may be required based upon the age and basic sum insured. · We will reimburse 100% of the expenses incurred per Insured Person on the acceptance of the proposal. · If Proposal is declined post PPC, 100% of Medical test charges will be borne by the customer for Rs. 500,000 sum insured, 50% for Rs. 10,00,000 Sum Insured and NIL for other Sum Insureds. · In case of any adverse medical declaration on the proposal form, we may request for additional medical tests. Section 8. Discounts. Online Discount: The Insured Person is eligible for 5% discount on premium in case he / she purchase the Policy online from the Company's website or the Company's mobile app or across technology platforms wherein they undertake digital marketing for the Company or assist with technology systems reducing IT costs for the Company. The subsequent Renewal of the same Policy will continue to enjoy the 5% discount, provided the Policy remains without the involvement of any other insurance agent or insurance intermediary. · Employee Discount: A  discount  of  5  %  on  the  Premium  is applicable if any Insured Person is a HDFC Group employee (full time employee) / Munich Re Group employee (full time employee) at the time of enrolment, or subsequent renewal; provided that such Policy is purchased through the Company's website or the Company's mobile app and without the involvement of any insurance agent or insurance intermediary. · Loyalty Discount: If  any  Insured  Person  has  an  active  retail insurance  Policy  with  premium  above  Rs.2,000  with  the Company, a discount of 2.5% on the Policy premium will be applicable at the time of enrolment as well as subsequent renewals. Section 8.1 Family Discount: The Insured Person will be entitled to receive 10% discount on the premium if two or more family members are covered under the same Policy under the individual Policy option. The above mentioned discounts are cumulative in nature and the total discount offered under Employee discount, Online discount, Loyalty discount and Family discount shall not exceed 20%. · Long Term Policy Discount: If the Policy Period is more than one year, the Insured Person will be entitled to receive a discount of 7.5% and 10% will be offered in case a Policy is purchased for 2-year and 3-year tenure respectively, provided he has paid the premium in advance as a single premium. Section 8.2 NRI Discount: Insured Person residing overseas with declaration that  they  are  based  abroad  in  entirety  for  the  Policy  Year will  be  offered  a  discount  of  40%,  subject  to  the  following conditions: a. This is applicable in case the Insured's status is NRI for the whole year and he wishes to continue earning his PED coverage until upon his return. However, while in India if the Insured wishes to make a claim, he may do so by making the differential payment applicable on the policy. b. For  Insured  who  have  been  offered  NRI  discount  in  a particular policy year and at policy renewal makes further declaration of his stay abroad for the forthcoming year the applicable NRI discount would be offered on the renewal premium. If the Insured would be based in India then no discount would be applicable upon renewal. c. For  Insured  who  have  been  offered  NRI  discount  in  a particular  policy  year  and  he  returns  to  India  anytime during the year, the Insured can notify the Company about the change and make payment for the additional premium (equivalent to the applicable NRI discount). If the additional premium payment hasn't been made during the year, the same would be added to the renewal premium at the policy anniversary. The policy would be renewed subject to the full premium being received by the Company. In case of long term policies, the additional premium will be recovered only for the corresponding year and not from retrospective date. Section 8.2.1 Aggregate Deductible Discount: If  Aggregate Deductible is opted for all Insured Person, following discount will be applicable on the Policy premium. Deductible Amounts (INR) and Percentages: For Base Sum Insured ≤ ₹20 lakh: 25% for ₹25,000 deductible, 40% for ₹50,000. For Base SI > ₹20 lakh: 15% for ₹25,000. Optima Secure Global / Optima Secure Global Plus: 14% / 30% / 50% / 55% for ₹1,00,000 / ₹2,00,000 / ₹3,00,000 / ₹4,00,000 deductibles. Corresponding percentages for other plans and deductibles: 65%, 40%, 45%, 55%, 27%, 36%, 41%, 50%, 4%, 8%, 10%, 11%, 14%. Section 9. Tax Benefit. Premium amount paid under this Policy qualifies for deduction under Section 80D of the Income Tax Act  Section 10. Exclusions The Company shall not make payment for any claim in respect of any Insured Person caused by, arising from or attributable to any of the following unless expressly stated to the contrary in the Policy:  Section 10.1. Standard Exclusions All the Waiting Periods and exclusions listed below shall be applicable individually for each Insured Person and claims shall be assessed accordingly. a. Pre-Existing Diseases - Code - Excl01 i. Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be excluded until the expiry of 36 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first policy with insurer. ii. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase. iii. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then waiting period for  the  same  would  be  reduced  to  the  extent  of  prior coverage. iv. Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of 36 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by Insurer. b. Specified Disease/Procedure waiting period- Code - Excl02 i. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the expiry of  24  months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an Accident. ii. In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum Insured increase. iii. If  any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for Pre-Existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. iv. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if  contracted  after  the  Policy  or  declared  and  accepted without a specific exclusion. v. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. vi. List of specific diseases/procedures is provided below. Section 10.1.1. Musculoskeletal / Joint Conditions: Non-infective Arthritis, Pilonidal Sinus, Osteoarthritis, Osteoporosis, Gout, Rheumatism. Gastrointestinal / Liver / Anorectal Conditions: Diseases of Gall Bladder including Cholecystitis, Pancreatitis, Ulcer and Erosion of Stomach and Duodenum, All Forms of Cirrhosis, Gastro Esophageal Reflux Disorder (GERD), Fissure / Fistula in Anus, Haemorrhoids, Perineal Abscesses, Perianal Abscesses. Urogenital / Reproductive: Calculus Diseases of Urogenital System (e.g., Kidney Stone, Urinary Bladder Stone), Polycystic Ovarian Diseases, Fibroids (Fibromyoma), Benign Hyperplasia of Prostate. Benign Tumors / Growths / Skin: Benign Tumors, Cysts, Nodules, Polyps including Breast Lumps, Skin Tumors. ENT / Sinus / Eye Conditions: Sinusitis, Rhinitis, Tonsillitis, Cataract and other disorders of Lens and Retina. Section 10.1.2. Covered Surgical Procedures: Adenoidectomy, Tonsillectomy, Tympanoplasty, Mastoidectomy, Hernia Repair, Dilatation and Curettage (D&C), Nasal Concha Resection, Surgery for Prolapsed Intervertebral Disc, Myomectomy for Fibroids, Surgery of Genito-Urinary System unless necessitated by Malignancy, Surgery for Varicose Veins and Varicose Ulcers, Surgery on Prostate, Cholecystectomy, Surgery for Perianal Abscesses, Hydrocele / Rectocele Repair, Joint Replacement Surgeries, Surgery for Nasal Septum Deviation, Ligament, Tendon, and Meniscal Tear Repair, Hysterectomy, Fissurectomy, Haemorrhoidectomy, Fistulectomy, ENT Surgeries, Endometriosis Surgery, Surgery for Prolapsed Uterus, Rectal Prolapse Surgery, Varicocele Surgery, Retinal Detachment Surgery, Glaucoma Surgery, Nasal Polypectomy. Section 10.1.3. Illnesses Surgical Procedures c. 30-day waiting period - Code - Excl03 i. Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first Policy commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, provided the same are covered. ii. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has continuous coverage for more than twelve months. iii. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the event of granting higher Sum Insured subsequently. d. Investigation & Evaluation: Code Excl04 i. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are excluded. ii. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental  to  the  current  diagnosis  and  treatment  are excluded. e. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care: Code - Excl05: Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also includes: i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons. ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs. f. Obesity/Weight control: Code - Excl06 : Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: i. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor ii. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols iii. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and iv. Body Mass Index (BMI) A. greater than or equal to 40 or B. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss: 1) Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 2) Coronary heart disease 3) Severe sleep apnoea 4) Uncontrolled type2 diabetes g. Change-of-Gender treatments: Code - Excl07: Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex. h. Cosmetic or plastic  Surgery:  Code  -  Section 10.1.4. Excl08 :  Expenses for  cosmetic  or  plastic  surgery  or  any  treatment  to  change appearance unless for reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of Medically Necessary Treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. i. Hazardous or Adventure Sports: Code - Excl09 :  Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional in Hazardous or Adventure sports, including but not limited to, para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving. j. Breach of Law: Code - Excl10 : Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent. k. Excluded Providers: Code - Excl11 : Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other provider specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website/notified to the Policyholders are not admissible. However, in case of Life Threatening Situations or following an Accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim. l. Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences thereof. Code - Excl12. m. Treatments received in health hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. Code - Excl13. n. Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without  prescription,  including  but  not  limited  to  Vitamins, minerals  and  organic  substances  unless  prescribed  by  a Medical Practitioner as part of Hospitalization claim or Day Care procedure. Code - Excl14. o. Refractive  Error:  Code  -   Section 10.1.5. Excl15 :  Expenses  related  to  the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres. p. Unproven Treatments: Code - Excl16: Expenses related to  any  unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with  any  treatment.  Unproven  treatments  are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to support their effectiveness. q. Sterility  and  Infertility:  Code  -  Excl17 :  Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes: i. Any type of contraception, sterilization ii. Assisted  Reproduction  services  including  artificial insemination and advanced reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI iii. Gestational Surrogacy iv. Reversal of sterilization. r. Maternity: Code - Excl18 i. Medical  treatment  expenses  traceable  to  childbirth (including complicated deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy; ii. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period. Section 10.2.  Specific Exclusions: In addition to the foregoing general exclusions, the Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy caused by or arising out of or attributable to any of the following: a. War or any act of war, invasion, act of foreign enemy, (whether war be declared or not or caused during service in the armed forces of any country), civil war, public defence, rebellion, revolution, insurrection,  military  or  usurped  acts,  Nuclear,  Chemical  or Biological attack or weapons, radiation of any kind. b. Aggregate Deductible - Claims/claim amount falling within Aggregate Deductible limit if opted and in force, as specified in the Policy Schedule. c. Any Insured  Person  committing  or  attempting  to  commit intentional self-injury or attempted suicide or suicide. d. Any Insured Person's participation or involvement in naval, military or air force operation. e. Investigative treatment for sleep-apnoea, general debility or exhaustion ('run-down condition'). f. Congenital external diseases, defects or anomalies. g. Stem cell harvesting. h. Investigative treatments for analysis and adjustments of spinal sub luxation, diagnosis and treatment by manipulation of the skeletal  structure  or  for  muscle  stimulation  by  any  means except treatment of fractures (excluding hairline fractures) and dislocations of the mandible and extremities. i. Circumcisions (unless necessitated by Illness or Injury and forming part of treatment). j. Vaccination including inoculation and immunisations (except post animal bite treatment). k. Non-Medical expenses such as food charges (other than patient's diet provided by hospital), laundry charges, attendant charges, ambulance collar, ambulance equipment, baby food, baby utility  charges  and  other  such  items. Section 10.2.1. Full  list  of  Non-Medical Expenses is attached as ANNEXURE B and also available at www.hdfcergo.com. l. Treatment taken on outpatient basis. m. The provision or fitting of hearing aids, spectacles or contact lenses. n. Any treatment and associated expenses for alopecia, baldness including  corticosteroids  and  topical  immunotherapy  wigs, toupees, hair pieces, any non-surgical hair replacement methods, optometric therapy. o. Expenses for Artificial limbs and/or device used for diagnosis or treatment (except when used intra-operatively), prosthesis, corrective  devices  external  durable  medical  equipment  of any kind, wheelchairs, crutches, and oxygen concentrator for bronchial asthma/ COPD conditions, cost of cochlear implant(s) unless necessitated by an Accident. 
p. Any treatment or part of a treatment that is not of a reasonable charge and not Medically Necessary. Drugs or treatments which are not supported by a prescription. q. Any permanent exclusion applied on any medical or physical condition or treatment of an Insured Person as specifically mentioned in the Policy Schedule and as specifically accepted by Policyholder/Insured Person. Such exclusions shall be applied for the condition(s) or treatment(s) that otherwise would have resulted in rejection of insurance coverage under this Policy to such Insured Person as per Company's Underwriting Policy. Section 11. Claims Procedure Section 11.1.  Notification of a Claim Notice with full particulars shall be sent to the Company as under: a. Within 24 hours from the date of emergency Hospitalization required or before the Insured Person's discharge from Hospital, whichever is earlier. b. At least 48 hours prior to admission in Hospital in case of a planned Hospitalization or decision to avail treatment under Section 3.2 (Home Health Care). 
Section 11.2. Procedure for Cashless Claims In India a. Treatment may be taken in a Network Provider and is subject to pre authorization by the Company. b. Cashless request form is available with the Network Provider. c. The Network Provider shall obtain the relevant information from the Insured Person / Policyholder and send a Cashless Facility request to the Company for authorization. d. The Company upon getting cashless request form and related medical information from the Insured Person/ Network Provider shall issue pre-authorization letter to the Network Provider after verification. e. At the time of discharge, the Insured Person shall verify and sign the discharge papers along with final bill, pay for non-medical and inadmissible expenses. f. The Company reserves the right to deny pre-authorization in case the Insured Person is unable to provide the relevant medical details. g. In case of denial of cashless access, the Insured Person may obtain the treatment as per treating doctor's advice and submit the claim documents to the Company for reimbursement. Section 11.3. Procedure for Cashless Claims Outside India a. You shall intimate the Claims to us through any available mode of communication as specified in the Policy, Health Card or our Website b. Treatment may be taken in a Network Provider and is subject to pre authorization by the Company. Process for obtaining PreAuthorization is mentioned below: i. We shall send Release of Information form to the Insured Person for signature and consent. ii. After receiving the signed Release of Information form, We will retrieve hospitalization documents along with invoices iii. If these details are not provided in full or are insufficient for Us to consider the request, We will request additional information or documentation iv. On receipt of the complete documents We may · issue  the  guarantee  of  payment  specifying  the sanctioned amount, any specific limitation on the claim and non-payable items, if applicable or · reject  the  request  for  pre-authorization  specifying reasons for the rejection. Section 11.4. Procedure for  Cashless Claims in case of Home Health Care (Section 3.2) On receipt of duly filled pre authorization form with other sufficient details to assess a cashless request, the Company will inform the Home Healthcare service provider or Network Provider, who will share the care plan and treatment cost estimation with the Company. On receipt of the complete documents the Company may: a. issue the authorization letter specifying the sanctioned amount, any specific limitation on the claim and non-payable items, if applicable, or b. reject the request for pre-authorization specifying reasons for the rejection. Section 11.5. Conditions for obtaining Cashless Facility within India a. Cashless facility can be availed only at Company's Network Provider. The complete list of Network Providers and empanelled service providers is available on Company's website and can also be obtained by contacting the Company. b. The Company reserves the right to modify, add or restrict any Network Provider for Cashless facility at its sole discretion. The same shall be duly updated on the Company's website. The Insured Person shall check the updated list of Network Providers before applying for cashless claim. c. Pre-authorization issued by the Company shall be valid for 15 days from the date of issuance (or expiry of the Policy, whichever is earlier). d. The Company shall make payment for the Cashless facility to the authorized amount, directly to the Network Provider. Section 11.6. Procedure for Reimbursement Claims For reimbursement of claims, the Insured Person shall submit the necessary documents to the Company within the prescribed time limit as specified hereunder. Claim Types and Prescribed Time Limits: Reimbursement of Hospitalization, Day Care Treatment, or Pre-Hospitalization Expenses: Must be submitted within 30 days from the date of discharge from the hospital. Reimbursement of Post-Hospitalization Expenses: Must be submitted within 15 days from the completion of post-hospitalization treatment. Section 11.7.  List of documents required for a Claim The reimbursement claim is to be supported with the following documents and submitted within the prescribed time limit. a. Duly Completed claim form, b. Photo ID and Age Proof, c. Copy of  the  Hospital's  Registration  Certificate/Hospital Registration  number in case of Hospitalization in any non Network Provider of the Company or certificate from Hospital authorities  providing  facilities  available  including  number  of beds, d. Discharge Card / Day Care Summary / Transfer Summary, e. Final  Hospital  bill  with  all  original  deposit  and  final  payment receipt and refund receipt(s), if advance amount refunded, f. Invoice with payment receipt and implant stickers for all implants used during Surgeries e.g. lens sticker and invoice in cataract Surgery, stent invoice and sticker in Angioplasty Surgery, g. All previous consultation papers indicating history and treatment details for current. Section 11.7.1 Illness and advice for current Hospitalization, h. All diagnostic reports (including imaging and laboratory) along with prescription by Medical Practitioner and invoice / bill with receipt from diagnostic centre, i. All medicine / pharmacy bills along with prescription by Medical Practitioner, j. MLC / FIR Copy - in Accident cases only, k. History of alcohol consumption or any intoxication certified by first treating doctor in case of Accident cases, l. Copy of Death Summary and copy of Death Certificate (in death claims only), m. Copy of indoor case papers with nursing sheet detailing medical history of the Insured Person, treatment details, and patient's progress (to be submitted wherever required by the Company). n. Invoice for vaccination and payment receipt, o. Original invoices for the expenses incurred towards ambulance facility along with details of loss in our prescribed format, p. KYC documents (in all claims above Rs 1 lakh) of the Policyholder as per AML guidelines, q. Duly filled NEFT form with cancelled blank cheque (with IFSC code, A/C number, and name mentioned on cheque leaf), r. Legal heir/succession certificate, wherever applicable, s. Additional documents for claims outside India of Insured Person and Accompanying Person (as applicable) - i. Passport copy with entry and exit stamps ii. Flight Tickets and Boarding Pass, if applicable iii. Accommodation Invoices, if applicable iv. Written  advice  from  the  overseas  treating  Medical Practitioner for requirement of an accompanying person during treatment. Section 11.7.2. t. Any  other  relevant  document  required  by  Company  for assessment of the claim. Note: i. The Company shall only accept bills/invoices/medical treatment related documents only in the Insured Person's name for whom the claim is submitted. ii. In  the  event  of  a  claim  lodged  under  the  Policy  and  the  original documents having been submitted to any other insurer, the Company shall accept the copy of the documents and claim settlement advice, duly  certified  by  the  other  insurer  subject  to  satisfaction  of  the Company. iii. If  requested by the Company, at the Company's cost, the Insured Person must submit to medical examination by Medical Practitioner appointed by the Company as often as it is considered reasonable and necessary and Company's representatives must be permitted to inspect the medical and Hospitalization records pertaining to the Insured Person's treatment, and to investigate the circumstances pertaining to the claim. iv. Any delay in notification or submission may be condoned on merit where delay is proved to be for reasons beyond the control of the Insured Person. Section 12. Standard General Terms and Clauses. Disclosure of Information The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any material fact by the Policyholder. Section 12.1. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company to make any payment for claim(s) arising under the policy. Section 12.2.  Claim Settlement (provision for Penal Interest) a. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. b. In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the Policyholder from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate. c. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. In such cases, the Company shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. d. In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the Policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim. Section 12.3.  Complete Discharge Any payment to the Policyholder, Insured Person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal representative or assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the Policy shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that amount for the particular claim. Section 12.4. Multiple Policies a. In case of multiple policies taken by an Insured Person during a period from one or more insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the Insured Person shall have the right to require a settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such cases the Insurer chosen by the Insured Person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen Policy. b. Insured Person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this Policy for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies even if the Sum Insured is not exhausted. Then the insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and conditions of this Policy. c. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the Sum Insured under a single Policy, the Insured Person shall have the right to choose Insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount. d. Where the Insured Person has policies from more than one Insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity basis, the Insured Person  shall  only  be  indemnified  the  treatment  costs  in accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen Policy. Section 12.5. Moratorium Period After completion of eight continuous years under the policy, no look back to be applied. This period of eight years is called as Moratorium Period. The moratorium would be applicable for the sums insured of the first policy and subsequently completion of 8 continuous years would be applicable from date of enhancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of Moratorium Period no health insurance claim shall be contestable except for proven fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the policy contract. The policies would however be subject to all limits, sub limits, copayments, deductibles as per the policy contract. Section 12.6. Fraud If any claim made by the Insured Person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the Insured Person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this Policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited. Any amount already paid against claims made under this Policy but which are found fraudulent later shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/ Policyholder(s), who have made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the Insurer. For the purpose of this clause, the expression 'fraud' means any of the following acts committed by the Insured Person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the Insured Person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an insurance policy: a. the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured Person does not believe to be true; b. the active concealment of a fact by the Insured Person having knowledge or belief of the fact; c. any other act fitted to deceive; and d. any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent. The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the Policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, if the Insured Person / beneficiary can prove that the mis-statement was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the Insurer. Section 12.7. Free look Period The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on renewals or at the time of porting/ migrating the policy. The insured person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days from date of receipt of the policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not acceptable. If the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to: a. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of the insured person and the stamp duty charges or b. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised by the insured person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover or c. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period. Section 12.8.  Renewal of Policy: The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the insured person. a. The Company shall endeavour to give notice for Renewal. However, the Company is not under obligation to give any notice for Renewal b. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the Insured Person had made a claim or claims in the preceding policy years c. Request for Renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before the end of the policy period d. At the end of the policy period, the Policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of benefits without Break in Policy. Coverage is not available during the Grace Period e. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience. Section 12.9. Portability The Insured Person will have the option to port the Policy to other insurers by applying to such Insurer to port the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related to Portability. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance policy with an Indian General/Health insurer, the proposed Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on portability. For Detailed Guidelines on Portability, kindly refer the link https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout. aspx?page=PageNo3987  Section 12.10. Migration The Insured Person will have the option to migrate the Policy to other health insurance products/plans offered by the Company by applying for Migration of the policyatleast30 days before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance product/plan offered by the Company, the Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. For Detailed Guidelines on Migration, kindly refer the link https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout. aspx?page=PageNo3987. Section 12.11. Cancellation a. The Policyholder may cancel this Policy by giving 15days' written notice and in such an event, the Company shall refund to the Insured a pro-rata premium for the unexpired Policy Period. Note : For Policies where premium is paid by instalment : In case of admissible claim under the Policy, future instalment for the current Policy Year will be adjusted in the claim amount and no refund of any premium will be applicable during the Policy Year b. The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on grounds of  misrepresentation non-disclosure of material facts, fraud by the Insured Person by giving 15 days' written notice. There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material facts or fraud. c. Refund of Policy premium in case of death of Insured Person/s: Policy  premium  shall  be  refunded  proportionately  for  the deceased Insured Person, for the unexpired Policy Period in case of death of any Insured Person/s. d. Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or any benefit has been availed by the Insured Person under the Policy. Section 12.12. Premium Payment in Instalments If  the  Insured  Person  has  opted  for  payment  of  Premium  on  an instalment basis i.e.  Yearly,  Half  Yearly,  Quarterly  or  Monthly,  as mentioned in the Policy Schedule, the following Conditions shall apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the Policy): a. Grace Period as mentioned. Premium Payment Options and Grace Periods: Option 1 – Multi-Year / Yearly Premium: 30 days grace period. Option 2 – Half-Yearly Premium: 30 days grace period. Option 3 – Quarterly Premium: 30 days grace period. Option 4 – Monthly Premium: 15 days grace period would be given to pay the instalment premium due for the Policy b. During such Grace Period, coverage will not be available from the due date of instalment premium till the date of receipt of premium by Company c. The Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the 'Waiting Periods', 'Specific Waiting Periods' in the event of payment of premium within the stipulated Grace Period d. No interest will be charged If the instalment premium is not paid on due date e. In case of instalment premium due not received within the Grace Period, the Policy will get cancelled f. In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately become due and payable g. The Company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending instalments from the claim amount due under the policy. Section 12.13. Instalment Premium payment through Auto Debit/ECS Facility a. If  premium payment is opted for by instalments through auto debit/ECS  facility,  a  separate  authorization  form  shall  be submitted by Insured Person specifying the frequency chosen for premium to be debited. b. Where there is a change either in the terms and conditions of the coverage or Policy or in the premium rate, the ECS authorization shall be obtained afresh. c. The Insured Person has the option to withdraw from the ECS mode at least fifteen days prior to the due date of instalment premium payable. d. No additional  charges  will  be  levied  or  recovered  in  any manner from the benefits payable towards cancellation of the ECS mode. Section 12.14. Possibility of Revision of terms of the Policy including the Premium Rates The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the Policy including the premium rates. The Insured Person shall be notified three months before the changes are effected. Section 12.15. Withdrawal of Policy a. In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the Insured Person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy. b. Insured  Person  will  have  the  option  to  migrate  to  similar health insurance product available with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as Cumulative Bonus, waiver of waiting period as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the policy has been maintained without a break. Section 12.16. Nomination The Policyholder is required at the inception of the Policy to make a nomination for the purpose of payment of claims under the Policy in the event of death of the Policyholder. Any change of nomination shall be communicated to the Company in writing and such change shall be effective only when an endorsement on the Policy is made. In the event of death of the Policyholder, the Company will pay the nominee {as  named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if  any)}  and  in  case  there  is  no  subsisting  nominee,  to  the  legal heirs or legal representatives of the Policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the Policy. Section 12.17. Redressal of Grievance In case of any grievance the insured person may contact the Company through: · Website: www.hdfcergo.com · Toll free: 022 6234 6234 / 0120 6234 6234 · E-mail: grievance@hdfcergo.com · Contact Details for Senior Citizen: 022 - 6242 - 6226 · E-mail specific for Senior citizens : seniorcitizen@hdfcergo.com Insured Person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the Company's branches with the details of grievance. If  Insured  Person  is  not  satisfied  with  the  redressal  of  grievance through one of the above methods, Insured Person may contact the grievance officer at cgo@hdfcergo.com For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link: https:// www.hdfcergo.com/customer-voice/grievances If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the Insured Person may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for redressal of grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017. Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI Integrated Grievance Management System -  https://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/ Section 13. Specific General Terms and Clauses. 13.1. Non-Disclosure or Misrepresentation of Pre-Existing Disease The Company may, notwithstanding and without prejudice to its rights under the standard general terms and clauses above, also exercise any of the below listed options for the purpose of continuing the health insurance coverage in case of non-disclosure or misrepresentation of Pre-Existing Diseases, subject to prior consent from Policyholder: 
a. Permanently exclude the disease/condition and continue with the Policy. b. Incorporate additional Waiting Period of not exceeding 4 years for the said undisclosed disease or condition from the date the non-disclosed condition was detected and continue with the Policy c. Levy underwriting loading from the first Policy Year of issuance of Policy or Renewal, whichever is later. Section 13.2.  Utilization of Sum Insured The sequence of utilization of the Sum Insured in this Policy, subject to the optional covers in force under the Policy, will be as follows; a. Base Sum Insured. b. Cumulative Bonus/Plus Benefit (if applicable). c. Secure Benefit (if applicable). d. Automatic Restore Benefit (subject to utilization of the Base Sum Insured in whole or in part). A single claim in a Policy Year cannot exceed the sum of Basic Sum Insured, Cumulative Bonus (if applicable), Plus Benefit (if applicable) and Secure Benefit (if applicable). Illustration for Utilization of Sum Insured · An Insured Person with my: Optima Secure (Optima Secure Plan), Tenure 1 Year, Second Policy Year in progress, Base Sum Insured 5,00,000 Illustration 1 Illustration 2 *A single claim in a Policy Year cannot exceed the sum of Basic Sum Insured, Cumulative Bonus (if applicable), Plus Benefit (if applicable) and Secure Benefit (if applicable). Illustration 3 – Claim Utilization: Claims under the policy include 1st Claim: ₹3,00,000, 2nd Claim: ₹5,00,000, and 3rd Claim: ₹10,00,000. The available benefit limit consists of Base Sum Insured: ₹2,50,000, Plus Benefit on 1st renewal: ₹2,50,000, and Secure Benefit: ₹5,00,000. The admissible claim amounts are 1st Claim: ₹3,00,000, 2nd Claim: ₹4,50,000, and 3rd Claim: ₹3,00,000. Automatic Restore Benefit is utilized partially across claims to cover admissible amounts exceeding the base sum insured. The utilization of sum insured is as follows: 1st Claim uses Base (partial) 0, 2nd Claim utilizes Base (balance) + Plus + Secure + Automatic Restore (partial), and 3rd Claim utilizes Automatic Restore (partial). Section 13.3.  Geography This Policy provides coverage throughout the territory of India, except under Section 4.8 (E-Opinion for Critical Illness). Section 4.9 Global Health Cover (Emergency Treatments Only), Section 4.10 Global Health Cover (Emergency & Planned Treatments)), Section 4.11 Overseas Travel Secure and as may be specified in the Schedule of Coverage in the Policy Schedule. Section 13.4.  Loadings a. The Company may apply loading on the premium, specific Waiting Period or permanent exclusions, based on the declarations made in the Proposal Form and the health status, habits and lifestyle, past medical records, and the results of the pre-Policy medical examination of the persons proposed to be insured under the Policy. b. The maximum medical underwriting loading shall not exceed 100% for each condition and a total of 150% for each Insured Person. c. Loadings shall be applied from Commencement Date including subsequent Renewal(s), and on increased Sum Insured. d. Proposer shall be informed about the proposed loading with premium, specific Waiting Period or permanent exclusion (if any) through a counter offer letter and Policy will be issued only on specific acceptance within 15 days of the receipt of such counter offer letter. In case the Company does not receive any response to the counter offer letter from the proposer within 15 days, the application shall be cancelled and any premium received shall be refunded within 7 days. Section 13.5. Endorsements This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot be modified by anyone (including an insurance agent or broker) except the Company. Any change or modification that the Company makes will be evidenced by a written endorsement signed and stamped by the Company. Section 13.6. Communication & Notice Policy and any communication related to the Policy shall be sent to through electronic modes or to the address of the following: a. The Policyholder's, at the address/ e-mail address specified in the Policy Schedule. b. To the Company, at the address specified in the Policy Schedule. c. Insurance agents, brokers, other person or entity is/are not authorised to receive any notice on the behalf of the Company, unless stated in writing by the Company. Section 14. Premium Tier. The premium payable under the Policy will be computed basis the city of residence provided by the Insured Person in the Proposal Form. Classification of cities would be as under: a. Tier 1: Delhi, National Capital Region (NCR), Mumbai, Mumbai Suburban, Thane and Navi Mumbai, Surat, Ahmedabad and Vadodara. b. Tier 2: Rest of India. No co-payment shall apply if Insured Person from Tier 2 avails a treatment in Tier 1. Refer Annexure C - Premium Table: Exclusive of Goods and Services Tax (GST). Section 15. Premium Computation Illustration Illustration 1 · Plan Name - Optima Secure · Tenure - 1 Year · Location - Delhi - Tier 1. Illustration 2 · Plan Name - Optima Secure · Tenure - 1 Year · Location - Delhi - Tier 1 Section 41 of Insurance Act 1938 (Prohibition of Rebates): 1. No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of premium shown on the Policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a Policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the prospectus or tables of the insurers. 2. Any person making default in complying with the provision of this section shall be punishable with fine which may extend to Ten Lakh Rupees. IRDAI Regulation no 5 - This Policy is subject to regulation 5 of IRDAI (Protection of Policyholder's Interests) Regulation 2017 Disclaimer:  the above is descriptive only. The actual terms and conditions can be found in the policy document. Insured's are advised to read the policy document completely for a full description of the terms and conditions of coverage and the exclusions relating thereto. Note: Policy Term and Conditions & Premium rates are subject to change with prior approval from IRDAI. Section 15.1. Annexure A - Schedule of Benefits Note: Optional Covers (except Aggregate Deductible & Overseas Travel Secure) are inbuilt in Plans as per the above table. Premium of such Optional covers are included in the premium of the respective Plan. **Aggregate Deductible & Overseas Travel Secure are not an inbuilt feature in any of the above Plans. However, these cover can be separately opted at inception of the Policy or at subsequent Renewals. ^Claims shall be payable as per geography mentioned unless explicitly stated otherwise in a specific cover. Add on - Covers: 'my: Optima Secure' offers following Add on Covers: · my: health Critical Illness Add On: Provides comprehensive coverage by offering a Lumpsum payout on diagnosis of any of the listed 51 critical Illnesses. Sum Insured options range from Rs. 100,000 to Rs. 500,00,000 in multiples of Rs. 100,000 · my: health Hospital Cash Benefit Add On: Per day hospital cash benefit for each continuous and completed 24 hours of hospitalization. Per day Sum Insured options of Rs. 500/ 1000/ 1500 / 2000/ 2500 / 3000 / 5000/ 7500/ 10,000 are available. · lndividual Personal Accident Rider: Provides Lumpsum pay out in case of Accidental Death, Permanent Total Disablement and Permanent Partial Disablement. Sum Insured shall be 5 (five) times the Sum Insured of Base Plan up to a maximum of Rs. 1 Crore · Unlimited Restore (Add on): Provides unlimited restoration in a Policy Year. (For in depth details on terms and conditions applicable to add-ons, Kindly refer to the Prospectus & Policy wording documents of the respective add-on available under downloads section on our website). 
Annexure B - List I - Items for which Coverage is not available in the Policy (Non-Medical Expenses) Annexure B - List I - Items for which Coverage is not available in the Policy (Non-Medical Expenses) This Policy is subject to Regulation 12 of IRDAI (Protection of Policyholder's Interests) Regulations 2017 